# 

Author

A Thesis in the Field of \[Your Field\]

for the Degree of Master of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies

Harvard University

\[Month of Graduation\] \[Year\]

Copyright 20XX \[Author's Name\]

Abstract

To insert Abstract text here, select this text and then either type the
text you wish to use or paste text from another document, being sure to
keep the text only and not the formatting from the previous document. To
keep text only, choose Paste, and then from the drop-down box that will
appear, choose the Keep Text Only option on the right, with the icon of
a clipboard and the letter A.

## Frontispiece (optional)

To insert Frontispiece image here, select this text and choose Pictures
on the Insert tab of the ribbon. If using the Frontispiece, please
delete the word "(optional)" from the header above.

To delete this or any other unwanted section, select it in its entirety,
including the title and the Section Break, and press Backspace or
Delete. To see the Section Break, show formatting symbols by clicking
the ¶ button in the Paragraph section of the Home ribbon, or by pressing
Ctrl+Shift+8. Repeat the command to hide them again. Failure to delete
the Section Break along with the text will result in a superfluous blank
page; accidentally deleting a Section Break you didn't intend to will
remove the page break between sections.

## This is a test heading

## Author's Biographical Sketch (optional)

This is something I am currently working on. I like writing in this way
because it only keeps a certain amount of information on screen. That
way I can type whatever I want

## Dedication (optional)

To insert Dedication text here, select this text and then either type
the text you wish to use or paste text from another document, being sure
to keep the text only and not the formatting from the previous document.
To keep text only, choose Paste, and then from the drop-down box that
will appear, choose the Keep Text Only option on the right, with the
icon of a clipboard and the letter A. If using the Dedication, please
delete the word "(optional)" from the header above.

To delete this or any other unwanted section, select it in its entirety,
including the title and the Section Break, and press Backspace or
Delete. To see the Section Break, show formatting symbols by clicking
the ¶ button in the Paragraph section of the Home ribbon, or by pressing
Ctrl+Shift+8. Repeat the command to hide them again. Failure to delete
the Section Break along with the text will result in a superfluous blank
page; accidentally deleting a Section Break you didn't intend to will
remove the page break between sections.

## Acknowledgments (optional)

To insert Frontispiece text here, select this text and then either type
the text you wish to use or paste text from another document, being sure
to keep the text only and not the formatting from the previous document.
To keep text only, choose Paste, and then from the drop-down box that
will appear, choose the Keep Text Only option on the right, with the
icon of a clipboard and the letter A. If using the Acknowledgments
section, please delete the word "(optional)" from the header above.
Note: if you are acknowledging only one person, please change the title
above to read "Acknowledgment."

To delete this or any other unwanted section, select it in its entirety,
including the title and the Section Break, and press Backspace or
Delete. To see the Section Break, show formatting symbols by clicking
the ¶ button in the Paragraph section of the Home ribbon, or by pressing
Ctrl+Shift+8. Repeat the command to hide them again. Failure to delete
the Section Break along with the text will result in a superfluous blank
page; accidentally deleting a Section Break you didn't intend to will
remove the page break between sections.

Table of Contents

Frontispiece (optional) iv

Author's Biographical Sketch (optional) v

Dedication (optional) vi

Acknowledgments (optional) vii

List of Tables (optional) x

List of Figures (optional) xi

Chapter I. About Chapters 1

Chapter II. Chapter Styles 2

Heading 3, SectionTitle/A-Head 2

Heading 4, B-Head 3

B-Head Style 4

B-Head Style 4

C-Head Style and Accompanying Paragraph 4

Body Text with C-Head 4

Numbered List Style 5

Bulleted List Style 6

Block Quote Style 6

Figures 7

Figure Title Style. 7

Figure Description Style. 7

Tables 8

Table Title Style. 8

Table Cell Style. 8

Table Description Style. 9

Styles Used in Other Parts of the Document 9

Title Style 9

Author Style 9

Centered Text Style 9

Harvard,Month,Year Style 9

Copyright Style 10

No-TOC-Heading Style 10

Bibliography Entry Style 10

Appendix 1. Title 11

Appendix 2. Title 12

\[Bibliography/References/Works Cited.\] 13

## List of Tables (optional)

[Table 1. Table Title. 7](#_Toc473816959)

[Table 2. Table Title 10](#_Toc473816960)

## List of Figures (optional)

[Figure 1. Figure Title. 6](#_Toc473816963)

[Figure 2. Figure Title 11](#_Toc473816964)

## Chapter I. About Chapters

There are two ways to add a new chapter. First, you can simply type the
name of your new chapter on a separate line and apply the *Chapter
Title* (or *Heading 2*) style. That will automatically drop your chapter
title down to the next page and you may then begin your next chapter.
Alternatively, you can copy this section, from the chapter title down to
the section break, and then paste it immediately following the section
break.

Whether you need a section break is largely determined by what you plan
to do with the structure of your thesis. If you need more than one
column (say, for columns of statistics), for example, you'll want a
section break, then another to switch back to one column.

To insert a new section break, go to the **Layout** tab in the Ribbon.
In the Page Setup section, choose the *Breaks* dropdown menu; from the
second half of the list, choose *Section Break: Next Page* or *Section
Break: Continuous* if you don't want a page break.

## Chapter II. Chapter Styles

There are several styles that are used within chapters that you'll need
to know how to use. Other styles in the document are used in specific
circumstances only, but we'll cover those later.

### Heading 3, SectionTitle/A-Head

The Chapter Title or "Major heading" style (shown in the Quick Styles
menu as "Ch Title") is used at the beginning of each chapter, including
the appendices. For an example, see "Chapter 1 About Chapters" above.
The first line of the title text will always begin 2" from the top of
the page. The style immediately following the Chapter Title style will
default to the Body Text style, to be used for the introduction of the
chapter.

Chapter titles will automatically be included in the Table of Contents,
but in order for them to appear after they're first added, you'll need
to right-click on the TOC and choose "Update entire table." To ensure
that the chapter title is formatted correctly both on the page and in
the corresponding TOC entry, there are two commands you'll need to use
for each:

-   In the TOC entry for Chapter 1, you'll notice that there's a
    half-inch space between the words "Chapter 1:" and the chapter
    title. This is accomplished by using a Tab character in the title
    itself. The Chapter Title style has been designed so that this Tab
    character will not interfere with the centering of the header and
    therefore will not appear to be present on this page at all; if the
    TOC entry does not contain that half-inch space, remember to add a
    Tab character.

-   In the Chapter 1 example above, you'll notice that the chapter title
    falls on two different lines, with the words "Chapter 1:" on the
    first line and the chapter title itself on the second line. If you
    use the Enter key to separate these (called a "hard return"), they
    will appear much farther apart on the page and will appear in the
    TOC as two separate entries. To prevent this, you'll need to use
    what's called a "soft-return" by pressing Shift + Enter (just after
    the Tab character mentioned previously). This command tells the
    computer that you want the second line to be considered part of the
    same header or paragraph even as it appears on a new line.

#### Heading 4, B-Head

The Section Title or A-Head style (shown in the Quick Styles menu as
"Sect Title") is used as a header for a section within a chapter. For an
example, see "Chapter Styles" above. Note: there should always be
introductory text for the chapter before the Section Title. The style
immediately following the Section Title style will default to the Body
Text style, to be used for the introduction of the section.

Section titles will automatically be added to the Table of Contents,
directly below the previous chapter title and with a half-inch indent,
each time you update the whole TOC.

#### B-Head Style

The B-Head style (shown in the Quick Styles menu as "B-Head") is used as
a header for a subsection within a section of a chapter. For an example,
see "B-Head Style" above. Note: there should always be introductory text
for the section before the B-Head. The style immediately following the
B-Head style will default to the Body Text style, to be used for the
introduction of the subsection.

B-Heads will automatically be added to the Table of Contents, directly
below the previous section title and with a one-inch indent, each time
you update the whole TOC.

#### B-Head Style

The Body Text style (shown in the Quick Styles menu as "Body Text") is
used for standard paragraph styles. This paragraph is using the Body
Text style; the default style for the next paragraph is also Body Text.

#### C-Head Style and Accompanying Paragraph

The C-Head style (shown in the Quick Styles menu as "C-Head") is used as
a header for a subsection within a subsection. For example:

[Body Text with C-Head]{.ul}. This is a C-Head and accompanying
paragraph. Note that the C-Head is on the same line as the rest of the
paragraph; it's not indented; and there is no additional space before
the C-Head as there is with other headers.

C-Heads will automatically be added to the Table of Contents, directly
below the previous subsection title and with a 1.5-inch indent, each
time you update the whole TOC.

To apply the C-Head style, select the paragraph to which it belongs and
click on the "Body Text w/ C-Head" style in the Quick Styles menu; then
select the C-Head itself and click on the "C-Head" style.

Remember, there should always be introductory text for the subsection
before the C-Head. The style immediately following the C-Head style will
default to the Body Text style.

#### Numbered List Style

To create a numbered list, select the lines of text which you want to
make a list (whether they're already in a Word list structure or not)
and choose the "Numbered List" style in the Quick Styles menu. If the
list was in a Word list structure previously, it will simply update the
styles. If the list was previously formatted by hand, you will need to
check that list items begin and end at the correct points and that any
typed numbering is removed.

1.  This is the Numbered list style.

2.  To add a list item, simply hit Enter at the end of the previous list
    item.

3.  To end the list, hit Enter and then select the "Body Text" style
    from the Quick Styles menu.

If you wish to create a second numbered list, follow the directions for
creating a list above, then right-click on the list and choose "Restart
at 1." If this does not work, right-click and choose "Set Numbering
Value" and set it to create a new list starting from 1. If either of
these methods creates a list starting with 1 but with the second item in
the list continuing numbering from a previous list, you may need to
right-click on that second item and again choose "Set Numbering Value,"
this time choosing to start from 2.

#### Bulleted List Style

To create a bulleted list, select the lines of text which you want to
make a list (whether they're already in a Word list structure or not)
and choose the "Bulleted List" style in the Quick Styles menu. If the
list was in a Word list structure previously, it will simply update the
styles. If the list was previously formatted by hand, you will need to
check that list items begin and end at the correct points and that any
typed bullets are removed.

-   This is the Bulleted list style.

-   To add a list item, simply hit Enter at the end of the previous list
    item.

-   To end the list, hit Enter and then select the "Body Text" style
    from the Quick Styles menu.

This is what some body text after a bulleted list would look like.

#### Block Quote Style

The Block Quote Style is used for quoting large selections of text,
rather than a word or phrase.

> Blockquotes are further indented to distinguish them from body text.
> They're also single-spaced rather than double-spaced.
>
> A multi-paragraph block quote will look like this, with a space
> between the paragraphs to differentiate them.

#### Figures

To insert a figure, place your cursor at the beginning of the Figure
Title line. You can either copy and paste a figure into the document or
use the Insert Pictures command in the Insert ribbon. Once you have the
image inserted, click on the picture and select the dropdown menu that
appears: make sure the "In Line With Text" option is selected, in order
to keep the picture aligned properly and associated with the correct
text. Example (the gray box is merely a placeholder to show you how it
should look):

[]{#_Toc473816963 .anchor}Figure 1. Figure Title.

Description of Figure 1, legend brief citation, etc.

[Figure Title Style.]{.ul} The Figure Title style, which appears in the
Quick Styles menu as "Figure Title," is used to name a figure in a way
that will appear in the TOC. The title will automatically be added to
the List of Figures following an update of the entire table. Remember to
place a tab between the figure number and the title, as shown above, in
order to preserve formatting in the TOC. Note: the style of the
paragraph following Figure Title defaults to Figure Description.

[Figure Description Style.]{.ul} The Figure Description style, which
appears in the Quick Styles menu as "Figure Description," is used to
briefly describe the accompanying figure; the space after it separates
it from the body text below the figure.

#### Tables

Tables can copied and pasted from another document or created in the
Word document itself using the Insert Table command on the Insert tab of
the ribbon. A sample table:

[]{#_Toc473816959 .anchor}Table 1. Table Title.

  Lorem ipsum   Augue vel tellus   Sed sagittis
  ------------- ------------------ --------------
  Est blandit   0                  1
  Sed est       0                  1

Table description style, legend, brief citation etc.

Following insertion using either method, table styles should be applied
as follows.

[Table Title Style.]{.ul} The Table Title should come immediately before
the table itself; the style appears in the Quick Styles menu as "Table
Title," In order to preserve formatting of the TOC entry, insert a Tab
character between the table number and the table title, as shown above.

[Table Cell Style.]{.ul} To apply this style to the table cells,
highlight the table and choose "Table Cell" from the Quick Styles menu.
The default will be to left-align the text inside the cells; to center
text, as in the second and third columns above, you can simply select
those cells and choose Center. To control vertical alignment as
necessary, select the applicable cells and choose the Layout tab that
appears in the ribbon. On the right in the Alignment section, choose the
graphic that matches the alignment you prefer, from top left to bottom
right to centered horizontally and vertically.

[Table Description Style.]{.ul} The Table Description style, shown in
the Quick Styles menu as "Table Description," is used to format the
brief description of the table immediately following said table. This
style also includes space after to differentiate it from later
paragraphs.

### Styles Used in Other Parts of the Document

#### Title Style

The only time the Title style is used is on the first page of the
document. It is exactly 2" from the top of the document.

#### Author Style

The Author style is also used only on the first page of the document and
begins exactly 2" below the title.

#### Centered Text Style

The Centered Text style is to be used on the first page for the Degree
information.

#### Harvard,Month,Year Style

The Harvard,Month,Year style is for use on the front page for the
University name and the month and year of graduation.

#### Copyright Style

The Copyright style is for use on the second page for copyright
information.

#### No-TOC-Heading Style

The No-TOC-Heading style is for use when chapter-type headings should
not be included in the table of contents, such as the Abstract. Its
appearance is exactly the same as the Chapter Title style but will not
be included when the table of contents is updated.

#### Bibliography Entry Style

The Bibliography Entry style is single-spaced with a double-space
between entries and has a hanging indent of one-half inch. The sample
text includes only a few examples of different style guides for
different types of document: please be sure to format your bibliography
entries using the style guide required for your thesis type.

## Appendix 1. Title

The following tables can be copied and pasted into other sections of
this document, then changed to the appropriate size and filled with
content.

To add a row, hover your mouse to the left of one of the gray lines
between or after rows; to add a column, hover your mouse above one of
the gray lines between or after columns. In either case, a thicker line
will appear with a "+" sign at the top; click this to add a row or
column. Note that when doing so, the width of columns and height of rows
will distribute evenly.

To delete cells, highlight them and right-click, choosing the Delete
Cells option. This will give you two types of options: you can delete
only the highlighted cells and choose whether to move the remaining
cells up or left; or you can delete the entire row or column that the
highlighted cells belong to.

[]{#_Toc473816960 .anchor}Table 2. Table Title

  Lorem ipsum   Augue vel tellus   Sed sagittis
  ------------- ------------------ --------------
  Est blandit   0                  1
  Sed est       0                  1

Table description style

## Appendix 2. Title

The following is placeholder text to show you how an appendix might fill
out with an image, figure title and description. Delete and replace with
your own as necessary.

[]{#_Toc473816964 .anchor}Figure 2. Figure Title

Sample text for Figure 2 description

We hope that this thesis template helps you to concentrate on the
substance of your writing as opposed to spending time on formatting
details, and that your thesis work goes as well as possible for you!

## \[Bibliography/References/Works Cited.\]

Last Name, Full First Name. *Basic MLA Style Only*. City: Publisher,
Year. Print.

Last Name, First and Middle Initials (Year). *Basic APA Style Only.*
City, State Abbreviation: Publisher.

Last Name, First Name. *Basic CMS Style Only, Requires Footnotes or
Endnotes.* Place of publication: Publisher, Year.
